
CHALLENGE



There are different kinds of challenge, and there are two main aspects to it as it exists in videogames.


WHAT am I doing?

There are different kinds of skill involved in a videogame, hopefully infinitely so, but some of the more common ones I shall begin to categorise, from my own experience:







WHY am I doing it?

There are reward systems in games, and goal systems, and these work together to describe the game and how it operates structurally.
[...]


*Test*

A test is something you need to have enough raw skill to succeed at least once within an indefinite amount of attempts.
Every boss battle is primarily a test, as well as basically every level in most games.
Technically the space between any two checkpoints is a test. 

~Endurance test

This is still just a test, but it pits your skill against a "room for failure", this is because statistically, it is more fun to fulfill 50 objectives with 10 stuff-ups than to fulfill 5 with only 2. Endurance is the extent to which the game expects you to maintain concentration without screwing up, and infinite modes are an indefinite test of endurance.

*Virtual Test*

This is a test not for the player, but for the character they are controlling.
If a test cannot be made any easier through practice, then 


*Stat Objective*

An objective is when a game says that in order to progress you need to have a certain amount of something.

~Transaction

Say a certain character is asking for a certain amount of currency before you can continue. In games that centre around free-roam battle to earn profit, in turn helping with a primary storyline, these transaction objectives create an extra challenge for those intent on focussing on the storyline alone: if you aren't retrying levels enough times, you won't be able to afford the upgrades you'll need after you've paid for all the transaction objectives. This encourages free-roaming in games where effort has been put into the freedom of its world, and also creates a self adjusting difficulty for those who aren't new to the experience. (Replay value!)

~





CHALLENGE
FREEDOM
FANTASY
PROMISE
FEEL
WORLD

