
[Focus]
I'm taking a bit of a break before the next update, to focus on some thinking, and working 
	out how to make things more fun, as well as spreading some play testing propoganda
	so.... give your feedback!

[Urgent]
Intransitive actions 
	(direct use an object, so things like reading a sign or pressing a button)
Number type variables for quantitative data
unseen objects and adjectives
A herobrine to remove

[Upcoming]
Ability to spawn objects from event scripts
level time,
autonomity
events will be able to trigger/queue events, for instance allowing for a clock which ticks
  every in game second via a recursive queued event, or a lever which triggers a transversal
  object which opens a door, or... something
Object zero will be implemented
A debug command designed to be useful for you as opposed to me
A demo environments section (read the readme)

[Later]
Actual coded "spaces" instead of the flavoursome location system
Nested stencils, maybe they'll eventually be called types again
(even) More versatile reactions
Text file as opposed to batch operation.
	Thus meaning that event scripts don't need to be all on one line.
sub items, so a door handle, or buttons on a number pad
	This would be complemented by a space system, allowing for things like held objects,
	or diablo style socketed armour
Actually user friendly design, that tells you why it doesn't work

[Still working out]
Story line
AI hooks (Player is a programmible object with inputs and outputs)
Senses for hooks, (and machinery) light, odour, shapes and sound
Stimulus associated with events, so when a door opens you see it open, rather than being fed
	flavour text
Fields for objects (is door locked? Is vase shattered? Is key Yellow?)
	-note this is available via properties, but needs further expansion and magic

[Eventually I guess]
AI
Language, visuals (whats the difference between a block of yellow, a yellow triangle and a 
	yellow man walking, and the word "Yellow" written in bubble writing on the wall)
Alphabet and symbol shapes.
A whoooole lot of complicated.